1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 1/25
Page 1
Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events
from April 26 to June 15, 2010
Prof. Kjell Flekkøy
Introduction
Lalm kindergarten was completed as a modern kindergarten on one floor in October 2008
rebuilding of a former kindergarten in the same town, built in 1989. Current kindergarten
(Department of Kindergarten) is co-located with and part of Lalm Oppvekstsenter.
The school part of Lalm Oppvekstsenter was completed in 1970. Before this, one does not know
other use of the site. The layout is functional, light and airy; good in use. In current
period, the kindergarten had up to 30 children aged 1 1 / 2- 5 years and 15 employees (17- 57
year); one man, the rest women.
The building is 287 m2 in construction built on concrete soles with waterborne heat laid in pipes.
slings in the floor with top cover of linoleum (linseed oil, resin and cork on straw).
The walls in the kindergarten and the personnel department are laid with wood or painted stripes on them
plasterboard. No high voltage cables are under or in the building. Waterways in the ground are
not specifically examined and not known. There are no high voltage lines, transformer
or high-voltage cables within at least about 80 m. Distance to the nearest mobile transmitter
(base station) is 1.5 - 2 km as the crow flies; to the nearest TV transmitter over 10 km. In the attic is
located a central fresh air system with fan and electric motor. There are guides above the flat roof
for fresh air and lighting. The technical department in the municipality has gone through the building without finding it
construction technical or other defects and deficiencies.
A. Picture of Lalm kindergarten. Photo by Rune Grindstuen
--the picture can be found as an attachment to the report—
Problem statement
Employees in Lalm Oppvekstsenter, children and employees in Avdeling Barnehagen, relatives of
these, representatives from Vågå municipality and others registered a series of unknown and
unintended events in the Department of Kindergarten and associated personnel department in the period 26.
April to 15 June 2010. With these and Vågå Municipality's management, there is interest in getting
events recorded, classified by content and form, and sought understood through
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 2/25
scientifically based knowledge. The undersigned have been given a mandate to carry out the collection of relevant information and evaluate this for this purpose. Through this will phenomenon
of this type could in the long run also be made available for research.
Note
Acknowledgment: Many thanks to Vågå municipality and the staff at Lalm Oppvekstsenter for the cooperation
during the collection of the data material. Professor Eirik Grude Flekkøy, Department of Physics,
The University of Oslo, should be very grateful for their contribution to the physics part of the discussion.
Page 2
Method
The person responsible for the current report came into the picture immediately after the phenomenon had
ceased June 15. Personal interview June 26 to mid-July was conducted by everyone
centrally involved by the employees in Lalm Oppvekstsenter (5-6 people), two involved and
staff in the Church of Norway, two "clairvoyants" (between these the one who was associated with the uprising
of the events), a husband of the employees and a male parent of one of the children.
No children were interviewed and no names will be mentioned on the adults. Everyone
kindergarten staff experienced incidents of the kind reported, but with
variation in scope and content over persons and time. During the interview period and later, forward
through September, there are a majority of conversations and meetings with individuals,
groups of employees and representatives from Vågå Municipality's management. Information
most of the individuals are controlled against other persons present in the same
the situation. Where interviewers are unsure whether an information is correctly understood by
he in detail, doubts are clarified through new contact with the person or persons in question.
Key events, referenced below, are all taken first hand from themselves
experienced these. Characteristically, almost all incidents have warts observed by at least two
personar; often in groups of three and up to 20 people.
There is also a meeting with the staff to discuss a first draft of the report.
Finally, the final report is assured for proper reporting and understanding of
the information through assessment of these by the person responsible for the kindergarten and for
Lalm Oppvekstsenter.
The report is also based on photographic material with written reporting of everything above
90 observations by the kindergarten manager, recorded during the activity period and
immediately after this. The recordings just after the episodes have happened, do
the reports little affected by memory shift. The picture was taken by the kindergarten staff
along the way and a small selection is presented below. It has been done extensively
review of older and newer literature of relevance to the Lalm observations and for
the biological and physical understanding of phenomena.
The professor emeritus in psychology is responsible for the current report
neuropsychology as a specialty (brain-behavioral relationships), University of Oslo and Ullevål
University Hospital (Oslo Hospital). In addition to research, has many years of clinical work
provide a basis for distinguishing between diagnoses and conditions of psychiatric, neurological and
aging-related stroke. He has no financial or formal ties to persons
2
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 3/25
at Lalm Oppvekstsenter, Avdeling Barnehagen, or Vågå municipality.
In the following, I will discuss the basis for trust in data, even though this is thematically appropriate
home in the discussion section. The reason is this: Phenomena that are reported are so unusual
and little understood that the reader will refuse to take them seriously, even in the present presentation.
Therefore, it is necessary to consider the basis for trust as a first step.
Trust in the data material. The data material in the case in question are observations made by
employ and appoint family members in Lam kindergarten and in the school, Lalm
Upbringing center; in addition to employees in Vågå Municipality's administration. It's six
alternative interpretations of these observations: (a) childish, (b) lies; (c) psychosis;
Page 3
3
(d) imagination - mass suggestion; (e) tricks and magic; (f) events in the presence of several persons are physical
real. Let's look at a quarter options at a time; but first the elm men.
It is important to take a stand on these alternatives. The phenomena reported below are off
such a nature that they easily invite explanation rather than explanation. "One does not believe
such ", and the person in question often means by" such "a phenomenon that is not recognized as
physically real and potentially available for understanding based on known knowledge. One forgets
preferably that the real is first separated from the non-real after examination and clarification of
the nature of the phenomenon. New phenomena must be met with relevant knowledge. Do not stretch
relevant knowledge, one must as a minimum seek to clarify the new form and content,
and the situations that arise within. This information must then be tested against
available and relevant knowledge. Only after such a test will one be able to assess whether
one can and should move on. This must also be the case with the Lalm observations, given that one
can have confidence in the observations as sources of knowledge. Another setting is
fundamentally unscientific and leads to cementing of the existing and cutting off
of new recognition. Our knowledge history has many examples of people who have not
wish to see the ring mountains on the moon in Galileo Galiles' telescope — such as representatives of the Church
his time did. In the present: We know that we still have a lot to do in understanding the world in
us and around us. The Lalm phenomena belong within the scientifically new and unknown.
One implication of this is that the observations must be referenced unselected and in great detail,
where such are available, because otherwise one will be able to lose information. Only knowledge will
help to distinguish essential from insignificant. The premise is that we can trust them
personal reports. Diverre never got so far that these could be substantiated
technical observations.
Children's lines. This is a kindergarten. What can one expect but that there goes one and
another wall in between? Born throws things. Yes, they do, but here the observations are many
of hand that precedes while the children are all out. Besides, it soon became clear that more of
the events can not be seen in the late and performed by children. To them they are too practical
difficult. Children's deeds were thought of — especially to begin with — and controlled for;
then excluded (chalk to be found in many places beyond-- children's hands and pockets
checked immediately with no mark of chalk to be found; plastic beads that fall off
the underside of one away, all the children and adults around have their hands up on the table.
Children's strokes cannot be the main explanation for the Lalm phenomena.
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 4/25
Lie. All lies, for they must, as many as here are in agreement. If so, what would
deira motives vera, and why now and not sooner or later? The situation that arose was
negative for all. It was a long way to go to make the events public. They had to lie
also be motivated to, those of the relatives who went through the kindergarten and themselves
experience current phenomena. Danger with untruth also makes representatives from Vågå
Municipal management that reports its own observations. They also had to lie, and so on
gangs, those who now and in the past have written about similar events in other cultures and in
other countries — over long periods of time. This is not very likely; so unlikely that we will see here
away from it. We can do the same with the next alternative.
Psychosis. Psychosis does not behave like moving objects in front of many people.
Objects require physical energy to be moved.
Mass suggestion. This is also unlikely, since new people suddenly become "threatening"
self-esteem in stark contrast to one's own expectations. Also, mass suggestion does not occur
such as moving objects.
Page 4
4
Tricks and magic. One or more people could think of making the initials
the "presets". This was then also the general opinion to begin with. Fast forward
this too unlikely in everyone's opinion. Until then, there were too many people watching
quadrants. For example, it would not be possible for one or a few people to walk around and
throw objects 1 Y2 month without others discovering it. Incidents also occurred early
who were not perceived to be compatible with the fact that individuals or groups could
stand behind. The individual hand as well as the overall picture could not be understood as technical
constructed. Until there are phenomena for composite, and the observations are made simultaneously,
independently of each other and over time by too many people with different settings.
The kindergarten was also in full operation all the time with children and adults around each other.
The motivation would be a challenge to find here as well. In addition: One does not see a fixed
pattern of person or persons associated with phenomena, cork in content, form or scope,
so one would have waited.
Events in the presence of several people are physically real. This option appears to be settled
the most likely. Movement of objects in different situations over a period of time
1 1/2 months in the presence of differently composed groups of persons, meets reasonable requirements
objectivity and trust that what has been reported has happened. Associating phenomenon fell within
the same category. This applies to sound and movement patterns of objects,
course of events (eg, removal of a bell that is immediately found), experience of
cold, discomfort and discomfort, skin affection, tremors and odor experiences. Also in these
In this case, several people are observers with expectations contrary to what is experienced. -
Alternatively, one could argue that phenomena beyond proven changes of objects
position is "subjective", and therefore belongs in a "mental", "mental" value,
affected by the person's uncontrolled processes with a lack of confidence in validity as
follow. Claiming this can be done, but not without a certain burden of argument. More
persons simultaneously heard the sounds that occurred; more saw the quakes, more had
skin impact and at the same time experience of discomfort and discomfort. The argumentative wanted
also — barely with his good will — had to coma to grips with the fundamental and
relevant fact that all observations, including the installation of physical recording equipment and
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 5/25
reading these, depends on what we call our subjective experience and our consciousness.
Selection. The events over the 1 V2 month they lasted are presented to a significant extent and
detail, where such are available. Of individuals, there are far more than presented here
(over 90). All kinds of events or phenomena are nevertheless dealt with to the best of our ability
discretion, either in the form of general discussion or through the presentation of the event or
the events in a certain detail. The greatest detail is also given to events that are visible
most informative. This reflects a given circle of knowledge and can
refine the presentation in an unfortunate way. Nevertheless, this kind of delimitation is hardly to
avoid for practical reasons. It is also positive and natural that one looks for causal
understanding where such is cognizably possible. The events or phenomena as in
to a particular degree appear to be incomprehensible are nevertheless not kept out. Judge is
experience of "visions". With this category will also be the cessation of phenomena
which is connected to the "clairvoyant" presence in the kindergarten. Omitting such events will
express distrust of the observers and a confidence in current knowledge such as
sufficient basis for exclusion we do not have scientific coverage for, give form and
content of the relevant observations.
Concepts. In the following, "throw" will be used in the meaning "movement of an object with
the speed, direction and change of trajectory one usually sees when throwing "
Page 5
5
instance is not implied through this. "Supernatural" will not be used, because this
the term is about as meaningful as "subnatural". "Unknown" or
"misunderstood" is better in this context. "Mental" is also not part of the vocabulary, because
the mental factor is pervasive for all observations. The same goes for
"Parapsychic". In the more causal discussion at the end of the report, neither host
"mental" or "psychic mechanisms" used to understand causation. This host
done because the physical and direct sensory form of the observations involves one
primarily physical form of understanding. Double parentheses (()) are used in direct quotation to display
inserted remarks from the signatories' side.
Result
Emergence and overall course of phenomena
One does not know of any changes in the staff group or other matters that are related to in time
the emergence of phenomena. The events in question appear to have occurred abruptly on the 26th.
April (below), but all autumn 2009 or early 2010 the staff points to two nonunderstood episodes: Four to five ordinary balloons in different subjects were found inflated in
The dock hook in the morning at two hooves, close to each other; unknown to children, staff
and laundry assistant. The staff is sure that such large objects would have noticed warts
until the evening before, they had been there. After that, no new hand appeared before
phenomenon- debut.
The first episode on April 26 seems to have our simple figures on doors ("half swastika"; about 30-
40 cm long). Then came plastic beads, about 1 cm long, which fell down in the presence of children
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 6/25
and adults. Then come simple drawings of sack-shaped figures on doors; small figures
made of feathers, paper flowers, etc. (see picture) with further development in the form of small
objects that are observed coming into the air. The following host hit set from it
written medical material as one of the first events: "Monday, April 26, 2010 sat NN
and NN in the formation room on Goliath. Suddenly pearls sprinkled around them at the table. The
were beads stored in a box with a screw cap, which stood high on a shelf on
the warehouse of Goliath. "-" Pearls "as above.
Initially, the phenomena were limited to two or three of the staff; all in full health.
No distinct patterns emerge over time when it comes to covariation between phenomena--
shapes and frequency — and persons, rooms in the house, time of day, days of the week, or acquaintances
conditions otherwise inside or outside the house. In all rooms in the house, phenomena have emerged
one or more different kinds. There are three exceptions to the basic rule above. The whole time was 5-6
of staff more often in contact with phenomena than the others. All hosts nevertheless perceive to
have observed events over time. The second exception: Three of the staff were registered to
have a dampening effect on the frequency and intensity of events — by presence in a room,
it may not be anything. The third is development over time: Gradually emerging
events with greater intensity — stronger sound, more and heavier objects are thrown,
subjective discomfort associated with the events becomes more pronounced. This development seems to
persist until the events abruptly cease after the gestation of a "clairvoyant".
Along the way, a representative of the Church seeks to influence the events through rituals. By
the review of the house in that context are sounds and events (throwing, doors that go
Page 6
6
att med brak) especially many and strong. Over the first couple of days then it is possible
happen somewhat quieter, before the events turn eighteenth with greater force than before.
Syner. It is part of the context that employees who also worked in the elderly
the kindergarten reports having experienced the presence and visual impression of a male person at
a number of hay over a long period of time.
Forms of events
Movement of objects in the form of throwing, removal and return over time (in dei aller
most cases); controlled movements, laying of patterns and other. In most cases
the objects appear to be coming from the loose air; sometimes from ceiling height.
The starting point for such movements is seen in two cases: a small light bulb used on a Christmas tree
and a nonstop (see below). Movement in the form of throwing is the most common of all
the events.
The objects are made of wood, glass, plastic, metal, mineral, cloth, paper and combinations
of materials (non-stop; mobile phone) and varying in size from small magnets,
toy hammers, pearls, paper flowers and feathers for ordinary pliers and stones of smaller
size.
Influence of objects (controlled manipulation) —bottle that "dances", water in
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 7/25
bottle at room temperature that bubbles when passing two people, new, unused program set on washing machine, glass and doors that open (and resist
closure) and goes att, oa
Direct contact between manipulated objects and persons, sometimes in a controlled manner
way (magnet that changes trajectory and strikes the shoulder, etc.).
Experience of strong, uncharacteristic discomfort; sometimes a sense of horror. With those who
notice this best, the condition occurs in advance of throwing objects ("now come
it to happen something "). The strong discomfort passes relatively quickly after the activity is
ceased.
Feeling of heaviness in the head, sometimes headache.
Strong feeling of cold, sometimes confined to parts of the body. Most likely the symptoms are in
points 5 and 6 related to the same cause; not interrelated.
Effect on skin on exposed areas - face, hands and arms.
Odor experiences of an unpleasant nature (eg, vinegar, ammonia, "cat pee",
rot smell), short-lived (minutes) and unexpected for time and place and with variation in
odor experience over the persons present. Not everyone needs to smell odor in it
whole.
Sounds. Crackling and slight scraping, the locality of one room; loud noise in or near
wall in a room (plural persons present); strong growling sound experienced in a third
locality (one person).
Complex situations (laying patterns; locking play sheds; box with toys
appears abruptly on the loft; bell removal; objects are lost only to be found
in easily visible places it has previously searched; oa).
Page 7
7
Events
Movement of objects
Overall features
Smaller objects suddenly appear without sound "as out of the air" at eye level,
possibly from ceiling height, and strikes the ground, always with a louder sound than normal,
but with normal sound quality otherwise. Where the starting point is registered, the movement has one
very abrupt start-up of a kind of "explosive" character; the object flew away. Especially initially was
the objects are generally small and light (play hammers, keys, magnets to attach to)
tavle, o. a; see attached picture); after a quarter larger objects. In the vast majority of cases host
there is no recorded sound in advance, but see below. More people feel stronger
discomfort (pressure in the head; feeling uncomfortable) seconds in advance; a person gets tremors in
armane. The vast majority of objects can be found inside the kindergarten or just outside, however
with some exceptions (old screw; old forged nails).
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 8/25
Another special feature is that the objects abruptly train after the impact. The unexpected abrupt stop
occurs regardless of the material of the object and substrate (metal; wood; plastic) and smooth or
rough surface.
Crushable glass or clay objects do not break, contrary to experience
such (cups, mugs). Upon impact against the wall, no marking occurs in the substrate, despite the fact that
one would expect it according to the weight, shape, speed and direction of the object (glue stick, e.g.). By one
case alone host a smaller jam jar with screw cap of metal powdered in very small
fragment after impact on the wall — but without a mark in the wall. In this case, the wall was off
paint plaster; in the other cases plaster as well as wood.
About halfway through the overall course of events, employees notice throwing objects
regardless of material is heat; ie slightly warmer than hand temperature. Objects
is not hot in advance, and the heat passes after a few minutes.
f. Individuals are considered by others to have a calming effect on the extent of
phenomenon.
B. Selection of objects observed to be thrown
Movements with sound at the starting point. It is hit from recording from ein
male relative of one of the employees — the only reporting of sound to the premises
the starting point of the object: "Right after we (he and two employees)) had entered
the eastern part of the kindergarten's living room, we heard a bang in the ceiling.
Then a marker of the type we call spirit marker appeared. This one came at high speed from
the roof and land in the window facing south. The tusk landed in the lining, and stopped
as if it were to land in glue. There was the lying untouched. I pick it up and
had it in his pocket ... "--After about two minutes in this room, they hear it again
the same sound from the ceiling, and a small light bulb lands in front of their feet (light bulb not
used for lighting). Along with the light bulb lands a small stone (drawing pen-large). He
Page 8
8
picks up the objects, and feels that the light bulb was hot, "..as if she were recently
turned off !! "In the same room, after a short time: The same sound, and a plastic cover lands with one
some sliding motion along the floor. In the western part of the kindergarten: "In the blink of an eye
as we came across this room, the sound came from the ceiling. Thus a path appeared in
head-height on us, and land at our feet. This gray stone was the size of
a fist to a 3-4 year old. The stone stopped right after it landed. IN
in the meantime it had come to another of the parents, who also saw this event. "
(No comment was made about temperature.) Finally the same night: The same sound from the ceiling,
and a (playful) log appears from the roof that lands with
abrupt stop.
It goes without saying that the relative in question in advance was strongly critical of the realism in
staff observations — like most of the men. This is changing rapidly and
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 9/25
lasting after self-observation. Based on professional experience, he is a male doctor
relatives also incomprehensible to the abrupt stop of the first object against slippery wooden surface in
the glass frame. A female employee registered at a high "very short" one
"shadow" / "eitkvart" about 2 m up. From there came immediately 10 small plastic beads,
remains just under 1 cm in diameter and lands on the floor with "a violent bang". More
is present.
Movements without sound. There is one, there may be two exceptions to the loud sound reported by
impact. At one haystack, two employees go to the square outside the house and look through the glass
stone slips at high speed along the floor of the room inside. It comes from another room and passes
just past one of the other staff passing through the observed room, however
which has not yet come to the area the stone seems to come from. This one reports
not to have heard sound from the stone at all; nor to have seen it under speed (the person
can probably be seen in another direction) —normal hearing; normal vision. There were no sounds in
or outside the house that could have masked sound from the stone; all children and adults were out of
the house. The reconstruction immediately afterwards showed that the stone made a lot of noise
passing along the floor as the two observers saw it did. The sound should have been ours
impossible not to right, it had slipped long floor surface as it looked. In another case;
written material: "A toy car small in the floor of the shaping room on Goliath. Then it looked
not like everyone heard the sound ". - The stone is of a kind one finds outside the house.
Movements with observed starting point but without associated sound. By two hooves are
the starting point of the object seen. Lightbulb. In one case, another small light bulb
use on a Christmas tree set to lift itself up from a small basket on a free-standing kitchen counter ("the island") and
fall to the floor 1-2 m away with an unnaturally loud bang and striking zigzag
movement on landing. No rotation or other special conditions registered in
basically. The observer perceives the total movement as somewhat slow and controlled.
The path towards the impact, but not the starting point, was observed by several of a group on
20 people present. Non-stop. In the second case, three of the staff sit at a small one
table with muffins; the nearest about m away. Under the full supervision of all host one of two
non-stop set abruptly to disappear from one of the cakes and land with a loud bang immediately
attmed. Several small magnets land immediately afterwards with a loud bang on the floor nearby. The
was no mark in the melis layer beyond the imprint from the distant non-stop. In a third
case is in all hove basically delimited. Children sit around the table; plastic beads fell
against the floor — and keep doing so, coming from under the table after the children have laid down
hands on the table top .--
Page 9
9
Rounding of corners. With several hoes, objects are transported from one room to another
anna - also rooms (warehouse, eg) with locked doors and windows - and with strongly deflected
paths along the way. One cup more people saw and knew was probably to be found immediately in advance in one
adjoining rooms come through an open door and strike against the ground in a new room after
apparently to wart transport around the corner the door represents in relation to
the starting point (removal of the object from the starting point was not observed). I eit
In another case, the incident implies that the movement starts on a wall shelf in the corridor, assumes
wall, along the corridor a few meters, and into the wall again - a movement with more
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 10/25
bends of the path.
Direct contact. In one case, a small whiteboard magnet is seen by two coming towards the person,
and at the last minute change course and strike against one's shoulder. -During a meeting with many
at present, an employee asks to be allowed to change places: he or she experiences that she gets one several times
finger in the neck. Others see a red mark there. The phenomenon ceases when changing seats. -
Two of the employees are in the warehouse. On the wall hung a large ball. Both stand bent over and search.
They suddenly notice a movement in the peripheral field of view, and experience both immediately after getting
a strong pressure in the back of what they think is the ball. They would have fallen, had the room
be a little bigger. The ball hangs as before when they turn. — Two employees and their partners
(four people) leave the kindergarten in the evening after a meeting. In advance it had been ours
great activity with throwing and loud noises inside the house. They walk along the house wall, hear
and see gravel and pebbles land against the wall from the outside as they go. They open and close
a small frame; talking together, two people hear squeaks from the gate (familiar sound), and less
stone lands against the back of one of the women. This person is facing the gate, dei
three others to varying degrees against it. Nobody sees a coma. The estimate is not particularly hard,
but host experience as without any cushioning other than of intermediate cloth. This is off
interest in terms of mechanisms underlying the movement of the stone. Immediately
after the right sound of gravel they perceive the host throwing at one of the cars. Ålment: No children are
known to be physically affected by objects.
Position effect. In one case, two people had a location in the kitchen at Lalm
Upbringing center (not Kindergarten Department) effect on throwing objects. The one
of these work at Lalm Oppvekstsenter, the other at Avdeling Barnehagen. With
starting point in a delimited area about in the middle of the room — estimated at about one meter in
diameter — was the movement of the body by a few centimeters (about 10 cm worth it) towards
one side of the room immediately followed by objects that appeared at eye level
right of the person, passed and landed with sudden stop and loud bang in a limited area
Further ahead. The objects were, among others, a dispenser key, forged nails, small
metal ball, used, old screw — the forged nail was not known from the nursery;
the metal ball was otherwise placed in a locked room on the other side of the corridor. Further details:
The kitchen was in use this afternoon for the end of the summer; that is, the one of two
halves were there — divided by a half-wall protruding into the room along a center line.
The "impact area" was in line away from this half wall. Moving towards
the activity part of the kitchen was related to throwing; movement backwards and or towards it
the other side seems to be without such an effect. The position effect was accidentally discovered by ein
person. This asked for "replacement" with the same effect registered for the next person. Six more
eight people came and went in the room during the approximately 30 minutes the events lasted, and a majority
of these observe the phenomenon.
Page 10
10
Transient change in drug properties
Two jackets belonging to the same owner were found, erected along the wall (wooden wall; the jackets in thin
and soft material - polyester and nylon). Only "a few inches of sleeves and
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 11/25
down jacket lay out along the floor used by her in work out immediately after . "One host hung up that by owner — the other
. Upon entry, this one finds the att-hanging
jacket standing up along the wall as before. Hanging on top of the slippery clothes host found
her mobile phone with the display facing the fabric. No fastener between phone and
jacket; no attachments or connections one could see or notice between the wall and this.
This also applied to the other of the two jackets that were first found. Thorough interrogation
give no indication of feeling of resistance to removal of phone or jackets from
wall. For example, the phone seems to hang loosely on the outside of the jacket when removed. No glue fabric was
noticed; no marks on the jacket. But "the display was dirty as if someone had
no effort was made to get the phone to attach to the jacket again;
nor equivalent for wall jackets. No noises or extra heat were registered
associated with phenomena. The cell phone had been gone five hours earlier that day.
Attempt at reconstruction showed that it was impossible to recreate the positions of the jackets and
the phone was found smooth wall surface and smooth, soft fabric; smooth surface against smooth fabric in
the case of the phone. Two people observed the jacket and telephone line-up.
At another hay a smooth and clean piece of wood, about 10 x 1 cm, was observed to land with one
big bang against a bubble jacket in nylon fabric — one of his children — and get hung up on one
plain and clean surface of the fabric. Two to three people observed this. No heat attached
the objects; no resistance to removal. -A sandal to one of the children was found
hanging on a children's jacket in the wardrobe. No resistance to removal; smooth, pure
surfaces against each other also here.
Local influence
"Dancing bottle" and other. A plastic bottle half full of cleaning alcohol starts abruptly
rotate around its own axis, quickly and with large strokes without falling down. It is hit from
observer's report: "I was the only one who saw that bottle on the kitchen island. I came from
fine-wardrobe (Goliat), and rounded the corner to the kitchen. The nearest adults were
away in the great room (Goliath), ie 8-10 meters away. All the children were out. There were none
bubbles in the bottle. It stood completely on the edge (corner), spinning around its own axis. It
should not really continue to spin, it should actually fall to the floor. I was like that
grabbed it and stopped spinning after a few seconds. The bottle contained alcohol, for washing
hands with. It's just an incident where the bottle spun. "The island is a free-standing bench
in the kitchen.
In another case, a brass candlestick goes over the end with a strikingly strong bang in it
the two pass by at a good distance from the bench on which it stood. — Doors offer unexpected resistance
closure, marked but transient (minutes); door goes that with violent crash — in all
cases in the absence of air draft and person.
Bottle bubbling. A plastic bottle with water at room temperature stands still on a shelf
in the kitchen. Two employees (one also saw the "dancing bottle") pass by on cards
distance - meters; part of the meter - and registers that there are abruptly rising bubbles in the lake.
This was not the case before passing, and the bubbles ceased immediately after passing. Dei
did not examine the temperature in the water or in the bottle.
Page 11
11
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 12/25
Brush on string A majority of people suddenly find a small paintbrush hanging in thin, smooth cotton cord, fasten to light fixture in one of the rooms. (see picture). It becomes a sign
down, but shortly after being found in the same position. Several are trying to fix it as it was
the find was unsuccessful (smooth thread; soft attachment for the thread in the brush). The suspension can
memory of the phenomenon with mobile on jacket and similar mentioned above.
C. Brush on string
Electronic and electrical phenomena
Three cell phone calls in the hours the owner could not find it (not it
same as mentioned above); three images from one day's exposures of moving objects were
the day afterwards not to be found on the electronic camera. One does not know yet
the fault lies — during storage, preservation along the way, or during retrieval. An activation of
movement indicator after closing time located in the corridor in the nursery (visible light). It is
conceivable that person (s) may be the cause. During the closing of the kindergarten at night, everyone has
gone, the light in one of the rooms is turned on twice after switching off. One person observes this.
The observation is trusted by other employees and signatories.
Effect on persons
Headache; feeling of pressure. From early on and during the process, they were employees
variation over persons plagued by feeling of pressure / heaviness to the head; often also headaches.
This was worst on days with the greatest activity, and worst for the one or the most involved.
For people with a history of headaches from before, one notices that the symptoms now
vision coincides with the former, but amplifies. Headache and heaviness
the head is by far the most common of the subjective ailments.
Feeling uneasy; strong discomfort. These were also common experiences with variety and
affiliations as above. The feeling of discomfort is very uncomfortable and does not seem to matter
coinciding with other experiences of a similar kind the person may have had. Eit
characteristic example are the exercises of the persons who together with the representative of
The church went through the house for the purpose of curbing or removing phenomena. In this case
the feeling of horror was strongest in the vicinity of a large, electric motor for the fresh-air system
in the attic. Not least, the representative from Kyrkja experienced strong horror in this city.
It is conceivable that there may be a causal connection — if unknown — between them
form of experience and the physical force fields that the electric motor generates.
Cold. Several persons experienced sudden onset, strong, uncharacteristic cold;
regardless of location in relation to natural drafts and cold sources. The phenomenon
occurred regardless of the room temperature, and was limited to one of many people
stades in space; sometimes also to part of the person's body. In one case was also marked
heat experienced below normal room temperature, limited to one person. Feeling cold
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 13/25
Page 12
12
could also occur in some immediately before throwing objects (the two most involved
initially). The prevalence of perceived cold in the room was not investigated.
Advance notice. "Now something is going to happen" —an experience that seems to be able to
be limited to the mental, but usually combined with a bodily experience
feeling of discomfort or discomfort; also cold-feeling.
Ventilation in the room. Sensation of local airflow; aeration. The phenomenon seems to take shape
strong local, physical movement of air (local movement of light objects is recorded in
literature).
Smell. Unpleasant smells were for a long time registered by a majority of people unexpectedly
and various places contrary to rational understanding - abruptly arising, lasting seconds to
minute; not always experienced with the same quality by everyone present, sometimes absent at
one between several people (sulfur, vinegar, salmiakk, cat pee, rot smell). The experience was
not related to any of the other phenomena. A person knew the same smell in the same place
several hoes.
Sound. In one of the rooms on Goliath was over time by several hooves of children as adults heard
unidentified sounds such as bangs (including other rooms), crackling, slight scratching and beeping.
Skin affection._About halfway through the course, strong redness occurred, "as with strong
sunburn ", in the face and exposed parts of the hands and arms of two employees. One of
these were between the two most involved to begin with. The phenomenon occurred regularly
in the further course and covaried with force and frequencies of object movements and
the strength of the associated sound. Along with the strong affection of skin, also appeared
the eyes as unnaturally shiny in the most affected. Skin and eye affection occurred
after a few minutes of physical activity in the room, lasted several hours after finishing
working day, and was to the great discomfort of her and the other affected. Redness and
the eye affection was observed by many.
Tremors. In the most affected by the persons above, also occurred strongly
unpleasant, uncontrollable, powerful and symmetrical tremors of the arms. This
could occur seconds ahead of the movement of objects as well as along the way, and
was widely observed. The tremors seem to have covaried with the frequency and strength of
throwing objects in the room.
Visual experiences. Syner
"Visions" of woman and man in full figure, one seen blurred from the side, were observed by two
of the employees during the course period. The visual experiences appeared unclear; in one case as
silhouette.
Complex events
Disappearance — invention. Over time, many objects were lost; Thoroughly look for
so to be found easily visible — cell phone on jacket is an example. Consistent is
the city of discovery investigated earlier. The items are small — keys, children's clothing. By
several hoes were the object found wrapped in other garments or placed on
other unexpected places around the nursery. After the cessation of events, good luck
objects appear with coma to be corrected. Children were suspected to begin with, but new
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 14/25
Page 13
13
examples made this almost unthinkable. Causal clarification here is of course separate
demanding.
Pattern making. Patterns were made of different materials in the form of eg triangle, cross, and simple
compilations of simple objects The first sentence is probably (a) a simple 30-40 cm long
line with end hooks — perceived as part of a swastika — slanted and set with chalk
on two doors, (b) sack-shaped figure deposited with chalk on the door. Several gongs were made
triangle on the floor which in a quarter of the case points mainly towards one room (the kitchen in it
old kindergarten). At one hoof the triangle was made of skimmed milk on a painted wooden table (see
picture) in a well-controlled situation: persons had left the room, control of
door, came immediately after that and found the figure. The pattern was made with small and light
objects (eg, springs, paper flowers).
D. Picture of pattern
Sounds associated with heavier objects. Box full of toys host placed with loud bang
on the floor of the loft — not stood there before. In the WC you can hear a loud bang
about a toy box that stood where it was lifted up and looked down sharply at that. One employee
is present in the room, but does not see movement of the cash register.
Door locking. Play sheds on the square outside the house are locked while one of the employees
stands with the relevant key in his pocket a few meters away with the house and door in full view—
discover by the one who cleans in plays abruptly finds the door locked contrary to expectation and
the situation minutes in advance. The spare key was kept in the principal's office — locked.
Whether the reserve key was there at the relevant time was not investigated. --All the doors to
three toilets inside the kindergarten turn out to be mechanically locked in a situation where use should
to say that they were open. The employee had to use a screwdriver to open the doors.
Mechanical movement of crane, and other. Tap for water in the kitchen host turned on
hot several times despite being in the "cold position" immediately in advance and person present while
this happens (movement of the crane is unobserved). Opening of a window in the kitchen
four times after closing immediately in advance — without the presence of a person (the movement not
set). Doors meet resistance to closing or can be made with very loud noise without personal
attachment or pull through the room.
Removal and retrieval of bells. The event came relatively early in the course-5. May. To
a total of six people are gathered in the room — the cloakroom and the exit area in
the kindergarten. A seventh person, a male teacher, is near the door in a noisy room (see
sketch). The exit area is about 3.5 x 3.5 m in front, larger further back; with large glass door in
front and doors that go off in three directions at the rear edge. Above the glass door / exit door is
mounted a small bell (sheep bell) that strikes the door when it opens to alert with a
sound by the piston striking the material of the watch. Just by the exit door and to the left
this set from the inside is a door to the toilet. Just inwards from this door, all the way to the wall,
stands a smaller wheelbarrow for children. The handle is facing the door; the seat part is covered by a
little wool. Right next to the carriage on the right side is a teacher at Lalm Oppvekstsenter; like
to the right of this and a little behind is an employee in the kindergarten. With your back to the toilet and
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 15/25
the spirit and attention facing the area between the exit door and the latter two stand
Page 14
14
a third. With his back to the front door and his face and attention mainly turned
inwards, there are three other employees in the kindergarten.
E. The situation when removing the bell
It's afternoon, people are about to go and stand and talk together. Suddenly one strikes
key with pendant in the glass door (exit door) from the inside and lands with a big bang
against the carving below. It is registered at eye level by the person closest to the pram by
passing outwards on her right side. A few seconds later, the people hear
the front door and otherwise in the room a sound from the bell - the piston against the goods — the person by
the carriage as short and muffled, the people at the WC and front door hear the sound clearly. The one
of these the sound was clearly heard "... and wait to get the bell in your head". The people inside
the room looks at the bell, the people at the door look up — and the bell is gone. The bell had
wart seen the minutes in advance. It is somewhat unclear whether everyone is equally aware of the sound.
No one has moved; no one moves. Person number seven in the other room has below
this potential insight into the entrance area (not clarified where he is at any given time).
The person by the pram follows "an impulse", as she expresses herself, bends down,
put your hand under the skin — and find the bell there, down in the carriage (no special heat
registered with the object). A few seconds have passed — maybe up to 10 sec.
from the key slammed against the door and some from seconds at most since the squeeze was heard
from the bell. The person who found the bell can not explain in more detail what made her
act as she did. One notices that more people use the term "indulgence" as part of
the experience of finding objects.
Clarification. Everyone present has the interview left to them by the signatories. It is full
coincidence between the reports from the individuals. The events came as a complete surprise
everyone. It is inconceivable that a "quarter" —person or technical installation — could have
operated in the short periods of time that are relevant within such a limited area and
within a field of vision that is essentially covered by six people at the same time. A notary
that the attention of several persons was directed at the bell by the sound from it, and all
these register that it is no longer there — but immediately after the host is found. The bell and the sound
from it had the wart registered (as inconspicuous) immediately in advance of the actual event by
passage of persons through the door. It is therefore very likely that it had ours
which immediately precedes or coincides with the time of the short squeeze. The
also means that the bell is fastened with a bent hook, so that one must lay the bell
horizontal before lifting it up and away from the hook. Reconstruction by the undersigned
showed that the chain of action could be carried out without problem — except for a somewhat high one
sound from the bell during removal and a very visible cause. In the present case, the control is
people in between and with the space between them and around them very good. The most
nearby explanation — all lies — does not appear to be the most appropriate alternative
causes discussed earlier. One can claim that the key to the route and squeezed in the bell is
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 16/25
classic magic tricks to divert attention from the central event — removal
of bell. The problem with the hypothesis in this case is that the localized sounds focus
attention, they do not distract it. The central field of view is always covered by several people
people. It was not investigated whether the bell found in the carriage was identical to the bell above
the door — no one thought about it. In any case, the invisible removal of the bell must be explained.
Page 15
15
"Materialization" box with toys. Box with toys appears abruptly on the loft in
several views - had not been there in advance; loud sound like when box is seen against floor.
Cessation of phenomena
The events ended on 15 June. In the time since, missing objects have gradually come
to be corrected. Apart from this, no new incidents are registered at the end of October
2010.
The day in question was a "clairvoyant" present in the kindergarten and performed a ritual in
presence of several of the staff. As it was conveyed, the ritual took the form of it
"clairvoyant" detection of "forces". Since there is a public connection between it
"clairvoyant" presence and cessation of events, two inputs and one have been completed
follow-up conversation with the same. These confirm an experience in this of
"contact" with an active factor and a mentally and action-oriented command
or command (urge) to this / these to move away from the city and go over in "ein
other reality. "There is little doubt about the" clairvoyant's "over-interpretation of the reality of his
experiences. In nature, the experiences are subjective and limited to the "clairvoyant", and
can therefore not be shared by the several other persons present below
the performance of the ritual. One attaches itself to three conditions: (a) connection in time between
the "clairvoyant" presence and absence of new events afterwards, (b) several of those implicated
kindergarten staff is with him in the implementation of his actions and hears and
see what he does; it is thus inadvisable to limit the actions to only one person, and (c)
he expressed to experience a mental form of contact with a causal factor he
experiences and formulates as personified in covenant with their understanding and religious
over-interpretation. Essentially, it is the coincidence between the two "clairvoyants" who are interviewed for
points (a), (b) and (c), but with variation for the person's experiences in the situation and
the understanding of these. This applies in particular to the concretization of the way the "forces" are
represented on for the person.
Commencement and termination — assessment
Let us as well as first and last discuss the initiation and conclusion of the events. We know
not what are the reasons why the phenomena in question arose in the form in which they came to be
the time they did. For that we need to know more, both about the physical mechanisms that
is the basis for individual phenomena, and about the underlying physical reality of these
is part of. Because phenomena are primarily of a sensory, physical nature, this requirement will apply
also if one sought understanding based on the mental mechanisms of the person involved.
In addition, there are no indications of mental or physical abnormalities or
problems in those involved. The conclusion: The "clairvoyant" presence is unquestionable
associated with this. —We can not avoid hearing the statement — the obvious: Everything
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 17/25
slopes one or another gong; why not at the time the "clairvoyant" was present? True and
sure. In principle, we are the same. The problem in this case is the abrupt stop (not entirely—
objects have persisted to come that) contrary to the build-up that over time had
be visible, and the lack of effect of a similar ritual performed by a representative from
The Norwegian church a short time in advance. We must find ourselves unsure of the effects and
causation here.
Page 16
16
Discussion
The lalm observations arise and end abruptly in their most characteristic form after
be 1 month. As far as one can see, the events occur in an essentially stable situation,
but with the special features mentioned. One does not find that new people come or that new
things happen to the house or the surroundings. At the debut and the first time afterwards is
the events concentrated around two or three people; later 5-6 people. Over time, though
close to all employees and more outside observed events to a greater or lesser extent. The
It has been noticed that especially three of the staff seem to have a calming effect on
events, but with the experience of phenomena in abundance. Beyond this, one does not see
a clear personal connection or pattern of persons, times and localities associated
the events. In contrast to the introduction, the conclusion is undoubtedly related to time and place
presence of one person — the "clairvoyant." What kind of causal connection is there here?
no other thing.
The larger lines in the picture are as follows: After debut, the events gradually increase in frequency and
intensity (speed, sound); larger objects are thrown, heat occurs in the object
regardless of material and the people present, experience discomfort to an increasing degree
(feeling unwell, tiredness, headache, cold, skin affection, tremors). The contents of
the events do not seem to change in a clear way, except that the patterns one saw
made to start with seems to be gone. Complex incidents, such as removing the bell above
front door, occurs relatively early in the process. The most common phenomenon is movement
(throwing) of objects without known starting point and without sound associated (exception exists)
with abrupt stop and loud sound in case of impact. Objects that are easily crushed become
generally not injured; nor is there any mark in the substrate after impact
(walls in wood or painted plaster). Sound occurs in walls in one room, uncharacteristic smells
arises unexpectedly with a somewhat different experience of these in the persons present; objects
are searched for later to be found easily visible in places all examined. Strong degree of
control of movements of objects is recorded: "dancing bottle", bubbles as
occurs in water at room temperature, non-stop removed from muffin in full view, bell
removed from the suspension and most likely moved unseen through a field of view covered by several
people. "Visions" of persons are experienced.
The observations of the Lalm phenomena have the following characteristics: (a) they are registered above
for a longer period of time at the same time by two or more persons inside and outside the group,
(b) the observers are in full physical and mental health, (c) the observations were made in
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 18/25
normal state of mind, and (d) includes objective as well as subjective events (moving
of objects as well as feeling cold, gloom, headache, etc.). Possible fabrication
or imagination is discussed in the introduction and found strongly unlikely or impossible.
The observations were not made in well-controlled situations of an experimental nature.
It has not been practically possible. In addition to this, they meet reasonable requirements for validity:
The observations cover for the most part events that are sensory
available to several people at the same time (moving objects; sounds, etc.) and
at the same time does not facilitate technical production or "slight of hand" -
magic. The living courtyard, the motivation one can not see, the long time and them
many people — different in expectation, attitude, and function — make it special
difficult to perceive the observations as anything other than expressions of real events.
The very solid impression the observers make as human beings and the honest over-interpretation
about the reality of own and others' observations that are communicated, does not make it possible
Page 17
17
(a) to reject the entire observation series as invalid; nor (b) to exclude
individual as too unlikely to be taken seriously. This debt can happen especially
"jacket with mobile phone" and bell that is removed and unseen transported through common
field of view. The option that is most in line with scientific attitude and practice, give
the qualities of the Lalm observations, is to also include such observations and let them
become part of a totality one at best only strongly incompletely understands. So can one
contribute to the most realistic understanding of all phenomena in the long run.
Assessment of phenomena based on the degree of understanding, give a division of
the events in two categories. 1. Potentially comprehensible from existing, scientific
based knowledge. 2. Not comprehensible at all on this basis. To these points must
tie one note. "Potential" in this case takes the form of guessing or
hypothesis formation. "Not understandable" suggests that the models or theories one might have
construct for these phenomena will fall too far away from the knowledge base to be able to
tene any function within the relevant framework.
Category 1
For analytical purposes, let's divide the phenomena into "sensory-based" and "subjective". It
astute reader immediately sees the problem: In the essential sense, all observations are
"subjective". Living people have observations as part of their subjective world.
There is our operational base, so and so. Still: Moving objects is sensory based in
the sense that several persons can share the observation at a common time. Subjective
observations, on the other hand, are to a lesser extent directly accessible to the senses
registrations. The pain as a personal experience is an example; the blue in the blue as well.
Language and shared experiences also give us access to the subjective states of others. Dei
the subjective states therefore become part of a continuum, where joint observation of e.g.
the movement of objects belongs to the other extreme. For practical purposes have
the categories still have a use value.
Sensory-based: Movement of objects characterized by abrupt start, ballistic trajectory,
abrupt stop, strong sound at impact, sound at the starting point, not crushing
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 19/25
(continuous), transport along floors without sound (observed by one person); positional
effect; dancing bottle, bubbling bottle, sandal on jacket, mobile on jacket, jacket up along
wall; electronic / electrical phenomena; skin effects as with strong sunburn,
blank auger; tremors; sounds in the wall; heat generation in objects; aeration in the room.
Subjective: Cold experience; ugygge; warning; fatigue; headache; smell.
Category 2
Syner; box with toys on the loft; removal and retrieval of bells; removal of nonstop; abrupt cessation of phenomena; direct contact (stone; ball); locking of toy sheds;
rounding of corners and movement along the corridor with clearance of obstacles; brush i
string; _templation making; disappearance and retrieval of objects, sound of box against floor
without observed movement (WC), locking of doors (three different WC), mechanical movement of
crane and winch; doors that resist closing and strike with very loud noise.
All of these phenomena seem to fall into the category of Sense-based above, with one exception
of visions and may sound of box against floor (WC).
Page 18
18
Category 1 phenomenon — a first assessment
Generally. Of the four fundamental forces of nature we know (electromagnetism, strong
and weak nuclear forces, and gravity), electromagnetism is the only one
relevant for analysis of phenomena in Category 1. The strong and weak nuclear forces are coming
not to mention because these only have an effect over very small distances — as in
atomic nuclei. Nor can gravity be. It only works over large
distances and will show variation over distances comparable to the size of
the object that creates it; in this case the globe itself. It will thus not be able to
act selectively on individual objects within rooms in houses. Eighteen they stand
electromagnetic forces. This limits the explanation problem, but not enough to
identify the mechanism or mechanisms underlying the movement of objects.
Fl ttin of 'enstander. It is known that electromagnetic forces can be quite strong
enough to move large objects (cars can be lifted with strong magnets). As a power source in
the case in question is nevertheless this last mechanism, the electromagnetic effect,
unlikely. Electromagnetic forces can act both as attraction and
repulsion between electric charges, in addition as magnetic forces; the last created
of interactions between an electric current and a magnetic field. Most likely it is
therefore an effect of repulsion between electrical charges underlying it
observed throw-like, abrupt movement of objects.
0 heat of "stand. Only electric currents, and not static charges, will
be able to create heat generation. However, it is difficult to understand how electric currents flow
will be able to heat glass. This is an electrical insulator and will only allow very weak
flows. As an alternative, it is conceivable that high-frequency electromagnetic radiation will be
absorbed in the glass. Where this radiation should come from, and what creates localization
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 20/25
of this to an object, on the other hand, is a completely open question.
Bråsto o past åande endrin av stoffle e ei enska ar. About a first one (unknown)
mechanism which creates surface currents also on the insulating objects of glass,
wood or plastic, one will be able to understand that there are forces between them. Induction currents
in two objects will create magnetic forces that may well be attractive in the long run
hold and repulsive at short range. The repulsive forces could explain why
the objects rush without being crushed; the attractive could explain the phenomenon as
'jacket along the wall' and 'object against the jacket'. The same mechanisms could be imagined
underlie sound phenomena.
Sound. Sound is pressure waves in air and is created by rapid disturbances or vibrations in
the air — as with a musical instrument. The sound of objects hitting is also conceivable
on as a result of this; alternatively that sound is generated from within the object. A sudden
force fending that acts on the objects could perhaps create the bangs that remain
observed. It is difficult to see what effect would create sound directly in the air, like this
as in lightning strikes, unless the inductive currents create dielectric
collapse in the air. In the electromagnetic context, we know that lightning strikes because the air
locally and quickly turns into glowing plasma. It does not seem to have such violent effects
talk about here because no flash of light is observed and also because di-electrical breakdown
(molecules are torn from each other) will occur locally and often leave marks in the material
where it happens. Di-electric breakdown, such as lightning, is associated with the discharge of
electrostatic voltage fields. If the mechanism in the city is induction (in which case is
Page 19
19
currents created by time variations in a magnetic field) the effect does not have to be a dielectrical breakdown.
Effect on person. Influence of skin as with strong sunbathing, shiny eyes, fatigue and
headache is detected by strong electromagnetic radiation; especially if this lasts over
time. Foreshadowing, feelings of uneasiness, local cold, heat and smell are unknown as an effect of
electromagnetic fields, but may nevertheless be thought to have such a cause. The same goes for them
observed symmetrical tremors of both arms. Forethought and sense of horror have
most likely a cause related to the brain centrally; the other conditions may be thought to have
a central as well as peripheral causal starting point (musculature; peripheral parts
of nerve pathways).
Effect of erson. The position of the person in the room — at least in one direction — affects
movement of objects. This phenomenon indicates an interaction between person and
a spatially delimited electromagnetic field. Other mechanisms are also conceivable.
L s that are turned on. Image that is away from electronic photo arat. These phenomena
are also in principle available for electromagnetic understanding.
Assessment. One lacks theory and controlled measurements for the host mechanisms
proposed to form the basis for any surface currents. These mechanisms will
therefore had to be speculative until controlled observations and measurements are available.
The assessments are nevertheless of interest, because they show that the Lalm phenomena are not straightforward
are physically unlikely (as some others are — astrology, for example). For those concerned
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 21/25
phenomena we also do not know nature's energy sources and control mechanisms.
Knowledge status means that assessments of the other Lalm phenomena (eg, "bottle as
bubbles ";" dancing bottle ") becomes too hypothetical to have intrinsic value. We still notice
"non-stop removal" as a rare beautiful demonstration of the control factor
degree of precision.
Category 2 phenomenon — a first assessment
The position sign here is that one must postulate a Factor X for Category 2 phenomena; i.e.
an unknown variable with forms of expression of the kind one sees under Category 2. We do not have
enough theoretical or observational knowledge to concretize this factor
physical nature and mode of action. We can, however, point to certain peculiarities of it; left off
these are interrelated: Targeting (direct contact), control (precise removal of nonstop and bell; pattern making), adaptation / modification (rounding of corners; change of
orbit by magnet against children; brush in string), plan for action (hiding and finding, ma
of bell; pattern construction; locking of play shed). Judging for a quarter aspect can be easy
become more. To varying degrees, characterizes the characteristics above all phenomena in
Category 2; partly also a phenomenon in Category 1. Central to all the special features is that they exist
of individual. For example — the bell situation: Key to front door, visual impressions, and
sound; fall with visual impressions and sound against the grate below; squeezed in the bell, absence of visual impressions
of bell; bell set and tactile known again under leather in stroller .-- We who
observers see the events in a sequence that to us appears to be targeted,
controlled, adapted and modified, and along the time axis arrange what we experience as one
plan: goal achievement through adapting actions. It is our privilege to see these
the contexts and assess what we do on the basis of our own and others' experiences.
Page 20
20
It is therefore with full right that we see and characterize phenomena as targeted, flexible
and plan-driven. What we do not have the full right to do is personify Factor X and add it
our own properties. Our project must instead be to seek knowledge about this
through established scientific methodology and available technical equipment. Our thoughts on
content and form — our hypotheses — must be governed as far as possible by the collective,
relevant knowledge and of concrete and controlled observations.
Interaction between Category 1 and 2 phenomena
Is it probable that the phenomena in the two categories have common causes or are interrelated
causal? Yes, both are likely. Most likely, Category 1 and 2 phenomenon part
of the same totality with common causes. It is conceivable that Category 1 phenomena are physical
and mental (subjective) forms of expression for Factor X physics. The specific form of expression for
Category 2 phenomena may well be instrumental depending on Category 1 physics.
Movement of objects with significant force strongly indicates that electromagnetic
forces causally are also central in the Category 2 phenomenon. On the other hand, it is a subtle,
adapt, adjust and target control over Category 2 phenomena, also an absence of
trial and error, which makes it unwise to see them as expressions of the "free play of forces" (if it
should now be physically possible). Whether this means that Factor X also represents ein
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 22/25
physics X — we can not know. That a possible physics X includes an addition to that physics
one sees represented in Category 1 phenomena, on the other hand, is highly probable. Clarification of
The physical nature of factor X is obviously important.
Effect of person
Such an effect is noticeable: The events were concentrated around a few people to begin with
with, several persons probably have a calming effect, the "clairvoyant" is associated with
ceases, and the literature shows that sound and caste phenomena have a special connection to children
and adolescents (Roll, 2004). (The idea of moving objects as an expression of children and young people
repressed emotions "do not appear as a plausible explanation.) Most obvious: Phenomenon
of the kind observed here changes design and strength in the presence of persons
along a timeline — greater intensity over time. The implication is that there is an interaction
effect between person and phenomenon. We also see this at the level of detail: the magnet that changes
bane. We also see it in the opposite direction (phenomenon — person): persons are affected by
phenomena in the form of, for example, cold, heat, smell, and a feeling of uneasiness. This
we do not know the nature of the interaction effect. --Salm little objectively investigated is Lalmphenomenon that we also do not know for sure about humans or animals on a scientific basis
needed for initial manifestation; nor whether the phenomena are present in the absence of
humans or animals. Such a clarification will be easy to obtain with electronic registration.
In the case in question, one also saw a clear positional effect of the person throwing off
objects. Probably this is still a somewhat different phenomenon than those mentioned above:
field effect.
There is an implication that follows from what has been said so far: Are there people who
creates phenomena? They seem to arise around us; can it be that we as an individual or in
group has a causal role in their creation — not just in their manifestation?
Causal role specified: Can we - one or more at the same time - influence the position of an object
and qualities through thinking about it without technical aids between us and
the object? "Phenomenon" in essence: Moving an object in the presence of several.
Page 21
21
The answer is almost certainly no. A lot of diligence and time was spent in ancient times on clarifying
the question. Psychokinesis was the positional influence cold, and is still called so. The answer was in
best case uncertain. The best and most scientifically designed is the research series conducted over close
30 years at Princeton University, New Jersey (Jahn, et al., 1997). They found a weak effect on
movements of very small objects and elementary particles in the form of deviations from a random
distribution in large experimental series. The effect is too small with a very large margin to be able to
explain the Lalm phenomena. Ein has also looked at the effect of large groups of people
joint commitment. The results are statistically significant, but open to a majority
interpretations (Radin, 2006). In any case, these observations are too far in form and content
from the Lalm phenomena to have relevance.
The most relevant research literature shows that we cannot move objects through
"the power of the will". An interaction effect is there enough, so we are wise to reserve with
consideration of our role in the form and content of phenomena.
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 23/25
Norwegian kindergartens
In recent years, Norwegian kindergartens have also been our arena for the same thing as at
Lalm: Bymyra kindergarten, Tromsø (Nordlys.no, published 16.03.07); a kindergarten in
Ålesund (mention without name, journalist Mona Skjong, Sunnmørsposten, 22.03.10); and one
third kindergarten so far not publicly presented (e-mail from a parent, 12.06.10).
Most characteristic and common to all kindergartens are repeated experiences in children and
adults of seeing persons who give the impression of having a connection to the city from before (visions).
For children, this also includes sound impressions as well ("... old lady so sorry ... crying";
personal interview with the responsible Bymyra kindergarten, 23.09.10). In adults experienced in
addition discomfort, mental heaviness and subjective inhibition in daily activities.
Summary and assessment
The data basis for the Lalm phenomenon is observations made by employees and children in Lalm
Uppvekstsenter (primarily the Department of Kindergarten), relatives of these,
representatives from Vågå municipality and others in the period 26 April to 15 June 2010. For
the majority have two or more persons observing the events simultaneously. These
the observations are partly documented through pictures taken by the employees, written doctors
notes made by these during the course, and interviews with the observers conducted
of the undersigned from 26 June until and including September 2010. The information is
checked for correct understanding through cross-interview of the informants and finally
reading the report by the people responsible for Lalm Oppvekstsenter and Avdeling
Kindergarten.
Lalm phenomena primarily include the movement of objects in the presence of several people, but
also pattern-laying and other complex phenomena. Characteristic is that the events
throughout is observed by several persons simultaneously. Psychopathology is not
registered with the observers. These include staff in the nursery as well as
outsider. Phenomena appear to have arisen abruptly without a definite connection to
persistent or new features in the physical or mental environment. They also abruptly ceased,
associated with the presence of a "clairvoyant". By having been 1 ½ month with development from relative
simple to more complex and powerful forms of expression, the Lalm phenomenon includes ein
unusual wealth of conditions. A similarly thoroughly documented and detailed
Page 22
22
representation of this type of phenomenon is not known by sign from the collect
the literature. One shortcoming in this context is that the phenomenon could not be further
documented through the use of technical aids; eg for registration of
electromagnetic fields. Nevertheless, the quality of the observations gives confidence in the validity of
dei.
In their simpler designs, phenomena appear as probable expressions of
electromagnetic interaction forces. The expression they get here is unknown from
experimental literature and from observations elsewhere in nature. This applies to caste-like
movements, abrupt stop in the event of impact, absence of damage to crushable material, effect on
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 24/25
people, sound, etc. In the transition from the simpler to the more complex the forms of expression, a need arises to understand the modifiable, goal-directed control that
turns out. These aspects of the forms of expression are also not to be found in other contexts
nature. These aspects can not be understood from simple models of electromagnetic
forces in action. In its greater breadth seems the complex, controlled design of
phenomena to be exclusively associated with humans and arise as an interaction between
our physique and mental life and certain aspect of the physical nature around us. Our physics in
this context also includes the physical and physiological basis of our
subjective experiences; the quality ("qualia") aspect of our consciousness. IN
to what extent the complex control that appears in the physical phenomena outside us is
associated with mental processes in humans, we know nothing about. Observations and
experimental data that lie ahead, however, make it unlikely that the manifestation of
the complex phenomena are entirely causally dependent on humans. Rather
points observations from spontaneous situations towards a physically independent status of this
factor, but with a custom design that depends on a biological factor.
Observations from spontaneous situations in the literature coincide with Lalmphenomena (e.g., Spencer, 1997; Roll, 2004; Rosenheim Poltergeist. Wikipedia, 2010). It
total amount of observation is extensive in content, time, city, culture and geographically
locality. There is no basis for perceiving the vast majority of the observations as
expression of deception, psychosis or other forms of psychopathology. It's a revelation
elements of junk contributions. Overall, there is a basis for assessing Lalmthe observations and correspondingly well-documented observations as physically real.
The implication is that phenomena are entitled to scientific clarification of their nature. It's strong
It is likely that this clarification will open doors to a more fundamental understanding of
central aspects of our own nature as well as the nature around us.
Page 23
Literature
The relevant literature can be small or large, depending on the criteria for
23
1/6/2021 Lalm kindergarten: Overview and assessment of unusual events from 26 April to 15 June 2010
https://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_f 25/25
delimitation. For current purpose — detection of similar observations elsewhere and
at other times — the following are considered sufficient.
Bender, H. (1968). "The Rosenheim Spook - A Case of Spontaneous Psychokinesis", in:
Journal of Parapsychology and Frontiers of Psychology 11: 104-112.
(Rosenheim Poltergeist. Wikipedia.)
Houran, J. Lange, R. (2008). Hauntings and Poltergeists: Multidisciplinary Perspective.
Amazon.
Hubbel, W. (1882). The Haunted House: A True Ghost Story. The great Amherst mystery.
(Great Amherst Mystery. Wikipedia.)
Jahn, RG Dunne, BJ Nelson, RD Dobyns, YH and Bradish, GJ (1997). Correlations of
Random Binary Sequences with Pre-Stated Operator Intention: A Review of a 12-Year
Program. Journal of Scientific Exploration, Vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 345- 367. (Link to
comprehensive literature: Princeton Engineering Anomalies Research.html.)
Playfair, GL & Grosse, M. (1988). "Enfield revisited: The evaporation of positive
evidence ". Journal of the Society for Psychical Research, 55: 208-219. (Enfield Poltergeist.
Wikipedia.)
Radin, D. (2006). Entangled minds. Simon and Scuster (Pocket Books).
Roll, WG (2004). The Poltergeist. Amazon.
Spencer, J. & A. (1997). The Poltergeist Phenomenon. London. (Amazon).

Text within photos
==========
==========

Photo B
==========
SELECTION OF ITEMS OBSERVED TO BE THROWN

Photo C
==========
BRUSH FOUND HANGING IN STRING

Reproduction failed

Photo D
==========
TRIANGLE IN THE FORM OF BORDERS

NOTE
The triangle is depicted in approximately natural size; each side approx. 0.3 cm x 10-15 cm and made in light milk on linoleum underlay. Repeated attempts at reproduction gave somewhat broader and significantly more irregular borders.

Photo E
==========
SITUATION WHEN REMOVING BELL