Steps to produce (resulting word count: 7485)
==========
1) Remove paragraphs without marked sections, using regex (in vscode): /\n\n([^`]+)\n\n/ -> "\n\n"
2) Remove non-marked text (before marked-text) in remaining paragraphs, using regex: /\n[^`#\n]+`([^#\n]+?)`/ -> "\n###`$1`"
3) Remove non-marked text (after marked-text) in remaining paragraphs, using regex: /(###|\n)`([^#\n]+?)`[^`#\n]+(`|\n)/ -> "$1`$2`###$3"
4) Manually replace the few remaining non-marked sections with "###". (there should only be a few)
5) Replace "###" with "...": "###" -> "..."
6) Remove backtick markers: "`" -> ""
7) Fix cases of quadruple ellipses: "...." -> "..."
8) Add spaces after non-start-of-line ellipses: /([^\s\[])\.\.\.([^\s\]])/ -> "$1... $2"
Note: This file was produced before some of the minor changes in the 7.0 file; the  changes are small enough though, that this file remains a very close estimate of 7-file's contents and word-count.

Lalm kindergarten was completed as a modern kindergarten on one floor in an October 2008 rebuilding of a former kindergarten in the same town, built in 1989. Current kindergarten (Department of Kindergarten) is co-located with and part of Lalm Oppvekstsenter...

The building is 287 m<sup>2</sup> in construction, built on concrete soles with waterborne heat laid in pipes, slings in the floor with top cover of linoleum (linseed oil, resin and cork on straw). The walls in the kindergarten and the personnel department are laid with wood or painted stripes, on plasterboard... There are guides above the flat roof for fresh air and lighting...

Employees in Lalm Oppvekstsenter, children and employees in Avdeling Barnehagen, relatives of these, representatives from Vågå municipality and others registered a series of unknown and unintended events in the Department of Kindergarten and associated personnel department... With these and Vågå Municipality's management, there is interest in getting the events recorded, classified by content and form, and sought understood through scientifically based knowledge...

...Professor Eirik Grude Flekkøy, Department of Physics, The University of Oslo, should be very grateful for their contribution to the physics part of the discussion.

...During the interview period and later, forward through September, there are a majority of conversations and meetings with individuals, groups of employees and representatives from Vågå Municipality's management. Information from most of the individuals are controlled against other persons present in the same situation... Characteristically, almost all incidents have warts observed by at least two personar...

...Finally, the final report is assured for proper reporting and understanding of the information through assessment of these by the person responsible for the kindergarten and for Lalm Oppvekstsenter.

...The recordings just after the episodes have happened, do the reports little affected by memory shift...

The professor emeritus in psychology is responsible for the current report — neuropsychology as a specialty (brain-behavioral relationships), University of Oslo and Ullevål University Hospital (Oslo Hospital). In addition to research, he has many years of clinical work, providing a basis for distinguishing between diagnoses and conditions of psychiatric, neurological and aging-related stroke. He has no financial or formal ties to persons at Lalm Oppvekstsenter, Avdeling Barnehagen, or Vågå municipality.

...The data material in the case in question are observations made by employees and family members in Lalm kindergarten and in the school, Lalm Upbringing center; in addition to employees in Vågå Municipality's administration. There are six alternative interpretations of these observations: (a) child's games, (b) lies, (c) psychosis, (d) delusion/mass suggestion, (e) tricks and (stage) magic, (f) the incidents witnessed by many are physically real. Let's look at a quarter options at a time; but first the elm men.

One implication of this is that the observations must be referenced unselected and in great detail, where such are available, because otherwise one may lose information. Only knowledge will help to distinguish essential from insignificant... Diverre never got so far that these could be substantiated technical observations.

**Children's lines.** This is a kindergarten. What can one expect but that there goes one and another wall in between? Born throws things. Yes, they do, but here the observations are many of hand that precedes while the children are all out. Besides, it soon became clear that more of the events can not be seen in the late and performed by children. To them they are too practical difficult. Children's deeds were thought of — especially to begin with — and controlled for; then excluded (chalk to be found in many places beyond — children's hands and pockets checked immediately with no mark of chalk to be found; plastic beads that fall off the underside of one away, all the children and adults around have their hands up on the table. Children's strokes cannot be the main explanation for the Lalm phenomena.

**Lie.** All lies, for they must, as many as here are in agreement... It was a long way to go to make the events public. They had to be motivated to lie also, those of the relatives who went through the kindergarten and themselves experienced current phenomena. Danger with untruth also makes representatives from Vågå Municipal management that reports its own observations. They also had to lie, and so on gangs, those who now and in the past have written about similar events in other cultures and in other countries — over long periods of time. This is not very likely; so unlikely that we will see here away from it...

**Psychosis.** Psychosis does not behave like moving objects in front of many people. Objects require physical energy to be moved.

**Mass suggestion.** This is also unlikely, since new people suddenly become "threatening" self-esteem in stark contrast to one's own expectations. Also, mass suggestion does not occur such as moving objects.

**Tricks and magic.** One or more people could think of making the initials the "presets"... Until then, there were too many people watching quadrants. For example, it would not be possible for one or a few people to walk around and throw objects 1<sup>1/2</sup> month without others discovering it. Incidents also occurred early which were not perceived to be compatible with the fact that individuals or groups could stand behind. The individual hand as well as the overall picture could not be understood as technically constructed. Until there are phenomena for composite, and the observations are made simultaneously, independently of each other and over time by too many people with different settings... One does not see a fixed pattern of person or persons associated with phenomena, cork in content, form or scope, so one would have waited.

...This option appears to be settled the most likely... Associating phenomenon fell within the same category... experience of cold, discomfort and discomfort, skin affection, tremors and odor experiences... therefore belongs in a "mental", "mental" value, affected by the person's uncontrolled processes with a lack of confidence in validity as follow... More persons simultaneously heard the sounds that occurred; more saw the quakes, more had skin impact and at the same time experience of discomfort and discomfort. The argumentative wanted also — barely with his good will — had to come to grips with the fundamental and relevant fact that all observations,...

...The greatest detail is also given to events that are visible most informative. This reflects a given circle of knowledge and can refine the presentation in an unfortunate way... Judge is experience of "visions"... Omitting such events would express distrust of the observers and a confidence in current knowledge such as sufficient basis for exclusion we do not have scientific coverage for, given the form and content of the relevant observations.

...In the more causal discussion at the end of the report, neither host "mental" or "psychic mechanisms" used to understand causation. This host done because the physical and direct sensory form of the observations involves one primarily physical form of understanding...

One does not know of any changes in the staff group or other matters that are related in time to the emergence of phenomena... Four to five ordinary balloons in different subjects were found inflated in the dock hook in the morning at two hooves, close to each other; unknown to children, staff and laundry assistant. The staff is sure that such large objects would have noticed warts until the evening before, had they been there...

The first episode on April 26 seems to involve simple figures on doors ("half swastika"; about 30-40 cm long)... Then came simple drawings of sack-shaped figures on doors; small figures made of feathers, paper flowers, etc. (see picture) with further development in the form of small objects that are observed coming into the air. The following host hit set from it written medical material as one of the first events: "Monday, April 26, 2010 sat NN and NN in the formation room on Goliath. Suddenly pearls sprinkled around them at the table. The were beads stored in a box with a screw cap, which stood high on a shelf on the warehouse of Goliath. "-" Pearls "as above.

...All hosts nevertheless perceived to have observed events over time... Three of the staff were registered to have a dampening effect on the frequency and intensity of events — by presence in a room, it may not be anything... Gradually emerging events with greater intensity — stronger sound, more and heavier objects are thrown, subjective discomfort associated with the events becomes more pronounced... the events abruptly ceased after the gestation of a "clairvoyant"... By the review of the house in that context are sounds and events (throwing, doors that go att med brak) especially many and strong. Over the first couple of days then it is possible happen somewhat quieter, before the events turn eighteenth with greater force than before.

Syner. It is part of the context that employees who also worked in the elderly the kindergarten reports having experienced the presence and visual impression of a male person at a number of hay over a long period of time.

...Movement of objects in the form of throwing, removal and return over time (in dei aller most cases); controlled movements, laying of patterns and other... a small light bulb used on a Christmas tree and a nonstop (see below)...

The objects are made of wood, glass, plastic, metal, mineral, cloth, paper and combinations of materials (non-stop; mobile phone), and varying in size from small magnets, toy hammers, pearls, paper flowers and feathers for ordinary pliers and stones of smaller size.

...glass and doors that open (and resist closure) and goes att...

..."now come it to happen something"...

...not interrelated...

...Effect on skin on exposed areas - face, hands and arms.

...Not everyone needs to smell odor in it whole.

...Crackling and slight scraping, the locality of one room; loud noise in or near wall in a room (plural persons present); strong growling sound experienced in a third locality (one person).

...Complex situations (laying patterns; locking play sheds; box with toys appears abruptly on the loft; bell removal; objects are lost only to be found in easily visible places that have previously searched; etc.).

...In the vast majority of cases host there is no recorded sound in advance... More people feel stronger discomfort... a person gets tremors in armane...

...In this case, the wall was off paint plaster; in the other cases plaster as well as wood.

...Individuals are considered by others to have a calming effect on the extent of phenomenon.

...It is hit from recording from one male relative of one of the employees — the only reporting of sound to the premises the starting point of the object... a small light bulb lands in front of their feet (light bulb not used for lighting). Along with the light bulb lands a small stone (drawing pen-large)... a plastic cover lands with one some sliding motion along the floor... a (playful) log appears from the roof that lands with abrupt stop.

Interestingly enough, the concerned parent had initially been markedly critical of the veracity of the accounts of the personnel — as had most of the other men. This was rapidly and lastingly changed after the self-observation. Based on professional experience, he is a male doctor relatives also incomprehensible to the abrupt stop of the first object against slippery wooden surface in the glass frame. A female employee registered at a high "very short" one "shadow" / "eitkvart" about 2 m up. From there came immediately 10 small plastic beads, remains just under 1 cm in diameter and lands on the floor with "a violent bang". More is present.

...At one haystack, two employees go to the square outside the house and look through the glass, and observe a stone slip at high speed along the floor of the room inside... one of the other staff passing through the observed room, however which has not yet come to the area the stone seems to come from. This one reports not to have heard sound from the stone at all; nor to have seen it under speed (the person can probably be seen in another direction) — normal hearing; normal vision... The sound should have been ours impossible not to right, it had slipped long floor surface as it looked. In another case; written material: "A toy car small in the floor of the shaping room on Goliath. Then it looked not like everyone heard the sound". — The stone is of a kind one finds outside the house.

**Movements with observed starting point but without associated sound.** By two hooves are the starting point of the object seen. **Lightbulb.** In one case, another small light bulb used on a Christmas tree set to lift itself up from a small basket on a free-standing kitchen counter ("the island") and fall to the floor 1-2 m away with an unnaturally loud bang and striking zigzag movement on landing. No rotation or other special conditions registered in basically. The observer perceived the total movement as somewhat slow and controlled. The path towards the impact, but not the starting point, was observed by several of a group of 20 people present. **Non-stop.** In the second case, three of the staff sat at a small one table with muffins; the nearest about 3/4 m away. Under the full supervision of all host, one of two non-stop set abruptly to disappear from one of the cakes and land with a loud bang immediately attmed. Several small magnets land immediately afterwards with a loud bang on the floor nearby. The was no mark in the melis layer beyond the imprint from the distant non-stop. In a third case is in all hove basically delimited. Children sit around the table; plastic beads fell against the floor — and kept doing so, coming from under the table after the children had laid down their hands on the table top.—

...With several hoes, objects are transported from one room to another anna - also rooms (warehouse, eg) with locked doors and windows - and with strongly deflected paths along the way. One cup more people saw and knew was probably to be found immediately in advance in one adjoining rooms come through an open door and strike against the ground in a new room after apparently to wart transport around the corner the door represents in relation to the starting point (removal of the object from the starting point was not observed). In another case, the incident implies that the movement starts on a wall shelf in the corridor, assumes wall, along the corridor a few meters, and into the wall again - a movement with more bends of the path.

...she experienced receiving, several times, a finger to the neck...
...In advance it had been ours great activity with throwing and loud noises inside the house... They open and close a small frame; talking together, two people hear squeaks from the gate (familiar sound), and less stone lands against the back of one of the women. This person is facing the gate, dei three others to varying degrees against it. Nobody sees a coma. The estimate is not particularly hard, but host experience as without any cushioning other than of intermediate cloth... Immediately after the right sound of gravel they perceive the host throwing at one of the cars. Ålment: No children are known to be physically affected by objects.

...In one case, two people had a location in the kitchen at Lalm Upbringing center (not Kindergarten Department) effect on throwing objects. The one of these work at Lalm Oppvekstsenter, the other at Avdeling Barnehagen... was the movement of the body by a few centimeters (about 10 cm worth it) towards one side of the room immediately followed by objects that appeared at eye level right of the person, passed and landed with sudden stop and loud bang in a limited area further ahead. The objects were, among others, a dispenser key, forged nails, a small metal ball, a used, old screw... The kitchen was in use this afternoon for the end of the summer; that is, the one of two halves were there — divided by a half-wall protruding into the room along a center line... Moving towards the activity part of the kitchen was related to throwing; movement backwards and or towards it the other side seems to be without such an effect... This asked for "replacement" with the same effect registered for the next person. Six more eight people came and went in the room during the approximately 30 minutes the events lasted, and a majority of these observe the phenomenon.

...erected along the wall (wooden wall; the jackets in thin and soft material - polyester and nylon). Only "a few inches of sleeves and down jacket lay out along the floor used by her in work out immediately after". One host hung up that by owner — the other [...]. Upon entry, this one finds the att-hanging jacket standing up along the wall as before. Hanging on top of the slippery clothes host found her mobile phone with the display facing the fabric. No fastener between phone and jacket; no attachments or connections one could see or notice between the wall and this... No glue fabric was noticed... But "the display was dirty as if someone had no effort was made to get the phone to attach to the jacket again; nor equivalent for wall jackets... The cell phone had been gone five hours earlier that day...

At another hay a smooth and clean piece of wood, about 10 x 1 cm, was observed to land with one big bang against a bubble jacket in nylon fabric — one of his children — and get hung up on one plain and clean surface of the fabric. Two to three people observed this. No heat attached the objects; no resistance to removal. —A sandal to one of the children was found hanging on a children's jacket in the wardrobe. No resistance to removal; smooth, pure surfaces against each other also here.

**"Dancing bottle" and other.**... quickly and with large strokes without falling down. It is hit from observer's report... I came from fine-wardrobe (Goliat)... The nearest adults were away in the great room (Goliath)... It stood completely on the edge (corner), spinning around its own axis. It should not really continue to spin, it should actually fall to the floor. I was like that grabbed it and stopped spinning after a few seconds... It's just an incident where the bottle spun." The island is a free-standing bench in the kitchen.

...a brass candlestick went over the end with a strikingly strong bang in it the two pass by at a good distance from the bench on which it stood.— Doors offer unexpected resistance to closure, marked but transient (minutes); door goes that with violent crash — in all cases in the absence of air draft and person.

...pass by on cards distance - meters; part of the meter - and registers that there are abruptly rising bubbles in the lake... Dei did not examine the temperature...

...A majority of people suddenly find a small paintbrush hanging from a thin, smooth cotton cord, fastened to a light fixture in one of the rooms (see picture). It becomes a sign down, but shortly after being found in the same position. Several are trying to fix it as it was the find was unsuccessful (smooth thread; soft attachment for the thread in the brush)...

----------
BRUSH FOUND HANGING IN STRING...

Reproduction failed
----------

Three cell phone calls in the hours the owner could not find it (not it same as mentioned above); three images from one day's exposures of moving objects were the day afterwards not to be found on the electronic camera. One does not know where the fault lies — during storage, preservation along the way, or during retrieval... the light in one of the rooms was turned on twice after switching off... The observation is trusted by other employees and signatories.

...From early on and during the process, they were employees variation over persons plagued by feeling of pressure / heaviness to the head; often also headaches... worst for the one or the most involved. For people with a history of headaches from before, one notices that the symptoms now vision coincides with the former, but amplifies...

...These were also common experiences with variety and affiliations as above. The feeling of discomfort is very uncomfortable and does not seem to matter coinciding with other experiences of a similar kind the person may have had. Eit characteristic example are the exercises of the persons who... Not least, the representative from Kyrkja experienced strong horror in this city...

...was limited to one of many people stades in space... In one case was also marked heat experienced below normal room temperature, limited to one person. Feeling cold could also occur in some immediately before object throwing...

..."Now something is going to happen" — an experience that seems to be able to be limited to the mental, but usually combined with a bodily experience feeling of discomfort or discomfort; also cold-feeling.

...Sensation of local airflow; aeration. The phenomenon seems to take shape strong local, physical movement of air...

...registered by a majority of people unexpectedly... — abruptly arising, lasting seconds to minute... sometimes absent at one between several people (sulfur, vinegar, salmiakk, cat pee, rot smell)... in the same place several høve...

...In one of the rooms on Goliath was over time by several hooves of children as adults heard unidentified sounds such as bangs (including other rooms), crackling, slight scratching and beeping.

**Skin affection.**... One of these were between the two most involved to begin with. The phenomenon occurred regularly in the further course... Along with the strong affection of skin, the eyes also appeared unnaturally shiny in the most affected. Skin and eye affection occurred after a few minutes of physical activity in the room... and was to the great discomfort of her and the other affected...

**Visual experiences. Syner**

"Visions" of woman and man in full figure, one seen blurred from the side, were observed by two of the employees during the course period. The visual experiences appeared unclear; in one case as a silhouette.

**Disappearance — invention.**... after thoroughly looking, they were then found easily visible — the cell phone on jacket is an example. Consistent is the city of discovery investigated earlier... After the cessation of events, good luck objects appear with coma to be corrected... Causal clarification here is of course separate demanding.

...triangle, cross, and simple compilations of simple objects. The first sentence is probably (a) a simple 30-40 cm long line with end hooks — perceived as part of a swastika — slanted and set with chalk on two doors, (b) sack-shaped figure... Several gongs were made into a triangle on the floor, which in a quarter of the cases pointed mainly towards one room... persons had left the room, control of door, came immediately after that and found the figure. The pattern was made with small and light objects (eg, springs, paper flowers)...

----------
TRIANGLE IN THE FORM OF BORDERS

The triangle is depicted in approximately natural size; each side approx. 0.3 cm x 10-15 cm and made in light milk on linoleum underlay. Repeated attempts at reproduction gave somewhat broader and significantly more irregular borders.
----------

...A box full of toys host placed with a loud bang on the floor of the loft — it had not stood there before. In the WC you can hear a loud bang about a toy box that stood where it was lifted up and looked down sharply at that. One employee was present in the room, but does not see movement of the cash register.

...Play sheds on the square outside the house are locked while one of the employees stands with the relevant key in his pocket a few meters away, with the house and door in full view — discovered by the one who cleans in plays abruptly finds the door locked contrary to expectation and the situation minutes in advance... All the doors to three toilets inside the kindergarten turn out to be mechanically locked in a situation where use should to say that they were open...

**Mechanical movement of crane, and other.** The tap for water in the kitchen host was turned to hot several times... (movement of the crane was unobserved). Opening of a window in the kitchen four times after closing immediately in advance — without the presence of a person (the movement not set). Doors meet resistance to closing, or can be made with very loud noise, without personal attachment or pull through the room.

...the cloakroom and the exit area in the kindergarten... is near the door in a noisy room... Above the glass door / exit door is mounted a small bell (sheep bell) that strikes the door when it opens to alert with a sound by the piston striking the material of the watch. Just by the exit door and to the left as seen from the inside is a door to the toilet... the seat part is covered by a little wool. Right next to the carriage on the right side is a teacher at Lalm Oppvekstsenter; like to the right of this and a little behind is an employee in the kindergarten. With your back to the toilet and the spirit and attention facing the area between the exit door and the latter two stand a third. With his back to the front door and his face and attention mainly turned inwards, there are three other employees in the kindergarten.

...Suddenly one strikes key with pendant in the glass door (exit door) from the inside and lands with a big bang against the carving below. It is registered at eye level by the person closest to the pram by passing outwards on her right side. A few seconds later, the people hear the front door and otherwise in the room a sound from the bell - the piston against the goods — the person by the carriage as short and muffled, the people at the WC and front door hear the sound clearly. The one of these the sound was clearly heard "... and wait to get the bell in your head"... The bell had wart seen the minutes in advance. It is somewhat unclear whether everyone is equally aware of the sound. No one has moved; no one moves. Person number seven in the other room has below this potential insight into the entrance area (not clarified where he is at any given time). The person by the pram follows "an impulse", as she expresses herself, bends down, puts her hand under the skin — and finds the bell there, down in the carriage... A few seconds have passed — maybe up to 10 sec. from the key slammed against the door and some from seconds at most since the squeeze was heard from the bell... One notices that more people use the term "indulgence" as part of the experience of finding objects.

...Everyone present has the interview left to them by the signatories. It is full coincidence between the reports from the individuals... It is inconceivable that a "quarter" — person or technical installation — could have operated in the short periods of time that are relevant... A notary that the attention of several persons was directed at the bell by the sound from it, and all these register that it is no longer there — but immediately after the host is found. The bell and the sound from it had the wart registered (as inconspicuous) immediately in advance of the actual event... It is therefore very likely that it had ours which immediately precedes or coincides with the time of the short squeeze. The also means that the bell is fastened with a bent hook, so that one must lay the bell horizontal... Reconstruction by the undersigned showed... except for a somewhat high single sound from the bell... the control is people in between and with the space between them and around them very good. The most nearby explanation — all lies — does not appear to be the most appropriate alternative causes discussed earlier. One can claim that the key to the route and squeezed in the bell is a classic magic trick to divert attention from the central event — removal of the bell...

**"Materialization" box with toys.** Box with toys appears abruptly on the loft in several views — it had not been there in advance; loud sound like when box is seen against floor.

...In the time since, missing objects have gradually come to be corrected. Apart from this, no new incidents are registered at the end of October.

...As it was conveyed, the ritual took the form of a "clairvoyant" detection of "forces". Since there is a public connection between the "clairvoyant's" presence and the cessation of events, two inputs and one have been completed follow-up conversation with the same. These confirm an experience in this of "contact" with an active factor and a mentally and action-oriented command or command (urge) to this / these to move away from the city and go over to "the other reality". There is little doubt about the "clairvoyant's" over-interpretation of the reality of his experiences. In nature, the experiences are subjective and limited to the "clairvoyant", and can therefore not be shared by the several other persons present below the performance of the ritual. One attaches itself to three conditions:... several of the implicated kindergarten staff are with him in the implementation of his actions and hear and see what he does; it is thus inadvisable to limit the actions to only one person, and (c) he expressed to experience a mental form of contact with a causal factor he experiences and formulates as personified in covenant with their understanding and religious over-interpretation. Essentially, it is the coincidence between the two "clairvoyants" who are interviewed for points (a), (b) and (c), but with variation for the person's experiences in the situation and the understanding of these. This applies in particular to the concretization of the way the "forces" are represented on for the person.

...For that we need to know more, both about the physical mechanisms that are the basis for the individual phenomena, and about the underlying physical reality that these are part of. Because phenomena are primarily of a sensory, physical nature, this requirement will apply also if one sought understanding based on the mental mechanisms of the person involved... —We can not avoid hearing the statement — the obvious: Everything slopes one or another gong; why not at the time the "clairvoyant" was present? True and sure. In principle, we are the same. The problem in this case is the abrupt stop (not entirely — objects have persisted to come that) contrary to the build-up that over time had be visible...

...At the debut and the first time afterwards,... Over time though, close to all employees as well as outsiders observed events to a greater or lesser extent. It has been noticed that especially three of the staff seem to have a calming effect on events, but with the experience of phenomena in abundance... In contrast to the introduction, the conclusion is undoubtedly related to the time and place presence of one person — the "clairvoyant". What kind of causal connection is present here? No other thing.

The larger lines in the picture are as follows... Complex incidents, such as removal of the bell above the front door, occurs relatively early in the process... without sound associated (exception exists) with abrupt stop and loud sound in case of impact. Objects that are easily crushed become generally not injured; nor is there any mark in the substrate after impact (walls of wood or painted plaster). Sound occurs in walls in one room,... found easily visible in places all examined... non-stop removed from muffin in full view, bell removed from the suspension and most likely moved unseen through a field of view covered by several people. "Visions" of persons are experienced.

...they are registered above for a longer period of time at the same time by two or more persons inside and outside the group... the observations were made in normal state of mind...

...In addition to this, they meet reasonable requirements for validity: The observations cover for the most part events that are sensorily available to several people at the same time (moving objects; sounds, etc.) and at the same time does not facilitate technical production or "sleight of hand" - magic. The living courtyard, the motivation one can not see, the long time and the many people — different in expectation, attitude, and function... The very solid impression the observers make as human beings and the honest over-interpretation about the reality of their own and others' observations that are communicated... nor (b) to exclude individual as too unlikely to be taken seriously. This debt can happen especially for the "jacket with mobile phone" and bell that is removed and unseen transported through common field of view... is to also include such observations and let them become part of a totality that one at best only strongly incompletely understands. So can one contribute to the most realistic understanding of all phenomena in the long run.

...two categories. 1. Potentially comprehensible from existing, scientific based knowledge. 2. Not comprehensible at all on this basis. To these points must tie one note. "Potential" in this case takes the form of guessing or hypothesis formation. "Not understandable" suggests that the models or theories one might have construct for these phenomena will fall too far away from the knowledge base to be able to tene any function within the relevant framework.

...In the essential sense, all observations are "subjective"... There is our operational base, so and so. Still: Moving objects is sensory based in the sense that several persons can share the observation at a common time. Subjective observations, on the other hand, are to a lesser extent directly accessible to the senses registrations. The pain that a person experiences is an example; the blue in the blue as well... Dei the subjective states therefore become part of a continuum, where joint observation of e.g. the movement of objects belongs to the other extreme...

Sensory-based: Movement of objects characterized by an abrupt start, ballistic trajectory, abrupt stop, strong sound at impact, sound at the starting point, not crushing (continuous), transport along floors without sound (observed by one person); positional effect; dancing bottle, bubbling bottle, sandal on jacket, mobile on jacket, jacket up along wall; electronic / electrical phenomena; skin effects as with strong sunburn, blank auger; tremors; sounds in the wall; heat generation in objects; aeration in the room.

Subjective: Cold experience; ugygge; warning; fatigue; headache; smell.

Syner; box with toys on the loft; removal and retrieval of bells; removal of nonstop; abrupt cessation of phenomena; direct contact (stone; ball); locking of toy sheds; rounding of corners and movement along the corridor with clearance of obstacles; brush on string; templation making; disappearance and retrieval of objects, sound of box against floor without observed movement (WC), locking of doors (three different WC), mechanical movement of crane and winch; doors that resist closing and strike with very loud noise... with one exception of visions and may sound of box against floor (WC).

...The strong and weak nuclear forces are coming not to mention... in this case the globe itself... Eighteen they stand electromagnetic forces...

*Fl ttin of 'enstander*... As a power source in the case in question is nevertheless this last mechanism, the electromagnetic effect, unlikely... in addition as magnetic forces; the last created of interactions... Most likely it is therefore an effect of repulsion between electrical charges underlying the observed throw-like, abrupt movement of objects.

*0 heat of stand*. Only electric currents, and not static charges, will be able to create heat generation...

*Bråsto o past åande endrin av stoffle e ei enska ar*. About a first one (unknown) mechanism which creates surface currents also on the insulating objects of glass, wood or plastic, one will be able to understand that there are forces between them. Induction currents in two objects will create magnetic forces that may well be attractive in the long run hold and repulsive at short range. The repulsive forces could explain why the objects rush without being crushed; the attractive could explain the phenomenon as 'jacket along the wall' and 'object against the jacket'. The same mechanisms could be imagined as underlying sound phenomena.

...A sudden force fending that acts on the objects could perhaps create the bangs that remain observed... If the mechanism in the city is induction (in which case it involves currents created by time variations in a magnetic field) the effect does not have to be a dielectrical breakdown.

*Effect on person*. Influence of skin as with strong sunbathing, shiny eyes, fatigue and headache is detected by strong electromagnetic radiation; especially if this lasts over time...

*Effect of erson*. The position of the person in the room — at least in one direction — affects movement of objects. This phenomenon indicates an interaction between person and a spatially delimited electromagnetic field. Other mechanisms are also conceivable.

*L s that are turned on*. Image that is away from electronic photo arat. These phenomena are also in principle available for electromagnetic understanding.

...One lacks theory and controlled measurements for the host mechanisms proposed to form the basis for any surface currents... because they show that the Lalm phenomena are not straightforward are physically unlikely (as some others are — astrology, for example). For those concerned phenomena we also do not know nature's energy sources and control mechanisms. Knowledge status means that assessments of the other Lalm phenomena (eg, "bottle as bubbles";"dancing bottle") becomes too hypothetical to have intrinsic value. We still notice "non-stop removal" as a rare beautiful demonstration of the control factor degree of precision.

The position sign here is that one must postulate a Factor X for Category 2 phenomena... We can, however, point to certain peculiarities of it; left off these are interrelated: Targeting (direct contact), control (precise removal of nonstop and bell; pattern making), adaptation / modification (rounding of corners; change of orbit by magnet against children; brush in string), plan for action (hiding and finding, ma of bell; pattern construction; locking of play shed). Judging for a quarter aspect can be easy become more. To varying degrees, characterizes the characteristics above all phenomena in Category 2; partly also a phenomenon in Category 1. Central to all the special features is that they exist of individual. For example — the bell situation: Key to front door, visual impressions, and sound; fall with visual impressions and sound against the grate below; squeezed in the bell, absence of visual impressions of bell; bell set and tactile known again under leather in stroller. — We who are observers see the events in a sequence that to us appears to be targeted, controlled, adapted and modified, and along the time axis is arranged in what we experience as one plan: goal achievement through adapting actions. It is our privilege to see these the contexts and assess what we do on the basis of our own and others' experiences.

...Our thoughts on content and form — our hypotheses — must be governed as far as possible by the collective, relevant knowledge and of concrete and controlled observations.

...Yes, both are likely. Most likely, Category 1 and 2 phenomenon are part of the same totality with common causes. It is conceivable that Category 1 phenomena are physical and mental (subjective) forms of expression for Factor X physics. The specific form of expression for Category 2 phenomena may well be instrumental depending on Category 1 physics... On the other hand, it is a subtle, adapted, adjusted and targeted control over Category 2 phenomena, along with the absence of trial and error, which makes it unwise to see them as expressions of the "free play of forces" (if it should now be physically possible). Whether this means that Factor X also represents einphysics X — we can not know. That a possible physics X includes an addition to that physics one sees represented in Category 1 phenomena, on the other hand, is highly probable...

**Effect of person**

...several persons probably had a calming effect... and the literature shows that sound and caste phenomena have a special connection to children and adolescents... Most obvious: Phenomena of the kind observed here changes design and strength in the presence of persons along a timeline — greater intensity over time... the magnet that changes bane. We also see it in the opposite direction (phenomenon — person): persons are affected by phenomena... This we do not know the nature of the interaction effect. —Salm little objectively investigated is Lalm phenomenon that we also do not know for sure about humans or animals on a scientific basis needed for initial manifestation; nor whether the phenomena are present in the absence of humans or animals. Such a clarification will be easy to obtain with electronic registration.

In the case in question, one also saw a clear positional effect of the person throwing off objects. Probably this is still a somewhat different phenomenon than those mentioned above: field effect.

...Are there people who create phenomena? They seem to arise around us; can it be that we as an individual or in groups have a causal role in their creation — not just in their manifestation? Causal role specified: Can we - one or more at the same time - influence the position of an object and qualities through thinking about it without technical aids between us and the object? "Phenomenon" in essence: Moving an object in the presence of several.

The answer is almost certainly no. A lot of diligence and time was spent in ancient times on clarifying the question. Psychokinesis was the positional influence cold, and is still called so. The answer was in best case uncertain... The effect is too small with a very large margin to be able to explain the Lalm phenomena. One has also looked at the effect of large groups of people in joint commitment. The results are statistically significant, but open to a majority interpretations (Radin, 2006)... these observations are too far in form and content...

The most relevant research literature shows that we cannot move objects through "the power of the will". An interaction effect is there though, so we are wise to reserve consideration of our role in the form and content of phenomena.

...Norwegian kindergartens have also been our arena for the same thing as at Lalm: Bymyra kindergarten, Tromsø (Nordlys.no, published 16.03.07); a kindergarten in Ålesund (mention without name, journalist Mona Skjong, Sunnmørsposten, 22.03.10); and one third kindergarten so far not publicly presented (e-mail from a parent, 12.06.10). Most characteristic and common to all kindergartens are repeated experiences in children and adults of seeing persons who give the impression of having a connection to the city from before (visions).

For children, this includes sound impressions as well ("... old lady so sorry ... crying"; personal interview with the responsible Bymyra kindergarten, 23.09.10). In adults, there was also experienced discomfort, mental heaviness and subjective inhibition in daily activities.

The data basis for the Lalm phenomenon is observations made by employees and children in Lalm Uppvekstsenter (primarily the Department of Kindergarten)... written doctors' notes made by these during the course, and interviews with the observers conducted of the undersigned from 26 June until and including September 2010. The information is checked for correct understanding through cross-interview of the informants, and finally a reading of the report by the people responsible for Lalm Oppvekstsenter and Avdeling Kindergarten.

...Characteristic is that the events throughout were observed by several persons simultaneously... By having been 1 ½ month with development from relatively simple to more complex and powerful forms of expression... detailed representation of this type of phenomenon is not known by sign from the collect the literature...

In their simpler designs, the phenomena appear as probable expressions... This applies to caste-like movements, abrupt stop in the event of impact... goal-directed control that turns out... In its greater breadth there seems to be a complex, controlled design of phenomena to be exclusively associated with humans which arise as an interaction between our physique and mental life, and certain aspects of the physical nature around us. Our physics in this context also includes the physical and physiological basis of our subjective experiences; the quality ("qualia") aspect of our consciousness... Observations and experimental data that lie ahead, however, make it unlikely that the manifestation of the complex phenomena are entirely causally dependent on humans. Rather, observations from spontaneous situations points towards a physically independent status of this factor, but with a custom design that depends on a biological factor.

...There is no basis for perceiving the vast majority of the observations as expressions of deception, psychosis or other forms of psychopathology. It's a revelation elements of junk contributions... The implication being that the phenomena are merited a scientific elucidation of their nature...